app/applicant-information.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Making sure applicants don't have to include too much information
description: We ensured applicants only had to submit data that would be relevant to their application
date: 2023-10-11
author: Martin Wright
tags: ['learn', 'pre-award']
users: ['applicants', 'assessors', 'fund policy']
---

## The problem
We saw through research that applicants often submitted more information than was required to answer a question, often because it wasn't clear exactly what information the question was asking for. We heard from assessors that applications that included lots of supporting evidence and 'just in case' type information were harder to assess and took longer.  

## What we did
We interviewed assessors and applicants about the performance of questions, answers and what effects long and unfocused answers had on the performance of assessment.

We designed a structured process for writing questions which we delivered in Question Protocol Workshops with funding teams.

By interrogating through Question Protocol Workshops with the fund teams we made sure that questions were focused on the information needed to make an assessment decision. We also ensure that assessment criteria was central to question formation.

We helped fund teams formulate questions that clearly state the information that is required, and encouraged assessors to use the answer to the question as the sole source of decision making information

## Evidence
Research with Assessors from COF Round 2 Window 1 the document uploads for business case and supporting information were often very large numbers of pages (100+) and often included large amounts of supporting documentation, for example meeting minutes, multiple letters of support or newspaper articles.

This greatly impacted an assessors efficiency in assessment (having to navigate these documents to find the information that would satisfy a question), the fairness of the assessment (applicants giving themselves the advantage by including extra information that might be used to answer another question, or spending resources producing glossy and attractive documents), and the equality of assessment (some assessors willing to spend more time than others reading documentation)

- [Assessor research sprint  26-27 (opens in Confluence)](https://dluhcdigital.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/FS/pages/5236144/Sprint+26-27+-+Round+2+Window+1+-+Interviews+with+applicants+and+contracted+commercial+assessors)
- [Community Ownership Fund applicant research (opens in Sharepoint)](https://mhclg.sharepoint.com.mcas.ms/:p:/s/FundingServiceDesignTeam/ETNJ66o7J65IuEjvu1a7igAByZ9LtBMezxW998FGD_rDow?e=d3SD0L)

Commit message:

Remove tags from posts and correct parent permlink of all posts

app/applicant-information.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Making sure applicants don't have to include too much information
description: We ensured applicants only had to submit data that would be relevant to their application.
date: 2023-10-11
author: Martin Wright
eleventyNavigation:
    parent: Access funding
    key: Pre-award history
tags: ['learn', 'pre-award']
users: ['applicants', 'assessors', 'fund policy']
---

## The problem
We saw through research that applicants often submitted more information than was required to answer a question, often because it wasn't clear exactly what information the question was asking for. We heard from assessors that applications that included lots of supporting evidence and 'just in case' type information were harder to assess and took longer.  

## What we did
We interviewed assessors and applicants about the performance of questions, answers and what effects long and unfocused answers had on the performance of assessment.

We designed a structured process for writing questions which we delivered in Question Protocol Workshops with funding teams.

By interrogating through Question Protocol Workshops with the fund teams we made sure that questions were focused on the information needed to make an assessment decision. We also ensure that assessment criteria was central to question formation.

We helped fund teams formulate questions that clearly state the information that is required, and encouraged assessors to use the answer to the question as the sole source of decision making information

## Evidence
Research with Assessors from COF Round 2 Window 1 the document uploads for business case and supporting information were often very large numbers of pages (100+) and often included large amounts of supporting documentation, for example meeting minutes, multiple letters of support or newspaper articles.

This greatly impacted an assessors efficiency in assessment (having to navigate these documents to find the information that would satisfy a question), the fairness of the assessment (applicants giving themselves the advantage by including extra information that might be used to answer another question, or spending resources producing glossy and attractive documents), and the equality of assessment (some assessors willing to spend more time than others reading documentation)

- [Assessor research sprint  26-27 (opens in Confluence)](https://dluhcdigital.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/FS/pages/5236144/Sprint+26-27+-+Round+2+Window+1+-+Interviews+with+applicants+and+contracted+commercial+assessors)
- [Community Ownership Fund applicant research (opens in Sharepoint)](https://mhclg.sharepoint.com.mcas.ms/:p:/s/FundingServiceDesignTeam/ETNJ66o7J65IuEjvu1a7igAByZ9LtBMezxW998FGD_rDow?e=d3SD0L)
