app/hard-evidence.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: Upload documentation only when 'hard evidence' is required
description: Avoiding the use of documents unless the data can't be collected any other way
date: 2023-10-15
author: Anisha Kanabar
tags: ['learn', 'pre-award'] 
users: ['applicants', 'assessors', 'fund policy']
screenshots:
  items:
    - text: Document upload component
      src: document-upload-component.png
      caption: Screenshot of a hard evidence example from Community Ownership Fund requiring use of the document upload component, as this data cannot be collected any other way
---

## The problem
Traditionally, application forms for funds would request multiple documents to be uploaded into tools such as Citizen Space or Microsoft Forms, or sent into a DLUHC mailbox to be moved into applicant Sharepoint folders. 

When clarity around the need for documents was not there—or there were no limits to the amount of information you could upload or send in—applicants were sending in multiple or large documents which did not always pertain directly to the answer of the question.

From previous lessons learned (from unpicking question formats, and the need to build in more ways for DLUHC to capture structured data) limiting the upload of documents to only when they are necessary was decided. 

## What we did
Research activity to tackle this problem:

1. Understanding where document upload was necessary to capture the data fund teams needed
2. Better understanding the experience of applicants when they were asked to submit documentation

We started to look at different funds where documentation had previously been required, to understand their need and format. We worked with applicants to understand their sentiments around documentation upload. 

We worked with previous fund applicants and internal DLUHC colleagues to unpack this problem.

## Evidence
Throughout research, it became clear there were some instances where documentation upload was unavoidable, like uploading letters of support from your local MP or uploading evidence of property ownership. This documentation was categorised as 'hard evidence'.

However, it was also noted, in historic funds, there are typically documentation upload requests for business plans, risk registers, cost sheets etc...

These documents are uploaded in many different formats which become difficult for assessment teams to interpret—and the open ended questions they stem from—leave applicants unsure what information they need to provide. In many cases, guidance to applicants for documents like this use language like "documents like this could include..." This lack of clarity adds to the confusion applicants face when compiling them.

## Decisions
For future funds, document upload will be limited to times where hard evidence is required. When tangible, non-tangible and numerical/tabular data is required, it's better to use the question formats and structures which were designed to capture these types of documentation in a clear and efficient way

The questions are structured clearly, making sure applicants are confident they are providing the information that is required of them. This also allows DLUHC to capture data in a consistent format which leaves limited room for interpretation.

Commit message:

Remove tags from posts and correct parent permlink of all posts

app/hard-evidence.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Upload documentation only when 'hard evidence' is required
description: Avoiding the use of documents unless the data can't be collected any other way.
date: 2023-10-15
author: Anisha Kanabar
eleventyNavigation:
    parent: Access funding
    key: Pre-award history
tags: ['learn', 'pre-award'] 
users: ['applicants', 'assessors', 'fund policy']
screenshots:
  items:
    - text: Document upload component
      src: document-upload-component.png
      caption: Screenshot of a hard evidence example from Community Ownership Fund requiring use of the document upload component, as this data cannot be collected any other way
---

## The problem
Traditionally, application forms for funds would request multiple documents to be uploaded into tools such as Citizen Space or Microsoft Forms, or sent into a DLUHC mailbox to be moved into applicant Sharepoint folders. 

When clarity around the need for documents was not there—or there were no limits to the amount of information you could upload or send in—applicants were sending in multiple or large documents which did not always pertain directly to the answer of the question.

From previous lessons learned (from unpicking question formats, and the need to build in more ways for DLUHC to capture structured data) limiting the upload of documents to only when they are necessary was decided. 

## What we did
Research activity to tackle this problem:

1. Understanding where document upload was necessary to capture the data fund teams needed
2. Better understanding the experience of applicants when they were asked to submit documentation

We started to look at different funds where documentation had previously been required, to understand their need and format. We worked with applicants to understand their sentiments around documentation upload. 

We worked with previous fund applicants and internal DLUHC colleagues to unpack this problem.

## Evidence
Throughout research, it became clear there were some instances where documentation upload was unavoidable, like uploading letters of support from your local MP or uploading evidence of property ownership. This documentation was categorised as 'hard evidence'.

However, it was also noted, in historic funds, there are typically documentation upload requests for business plans, risk registers, cost sheets etc...

These documents are uploaded in many different formats which become difficult for assessment teams to interpret—and the open ended questions they stem from—leave applicants unsure what information they need to provide. In many cases, guidance to applicants for documents like this use language like "documents like this could include..." This lack of clarity adds to the confusion applicants face when compiling them.

## Decisions
For future funds, document upload will be limited to times where hard evidence is required. When tangible, non-tangible and numerical/tabular data is required, it's better to use the question formats and structures which were designed to capture these types of documentation in a clear and efficient way

The questions are structured clearly, making sure applicants are confident they are providing the information that is required of them. This also allows DLUHC to capture data in a consistent format which leaves limited room for interpretation.
