app/word-limits.md, before:

---
layout: post
title: We introduced word limits to questions to help applicants understand the degree of detail expected from their responses
description: Summary
date: 2023-10-11
author: Martin Wright
tags: ['learn', 'pre-award'] 
users: ['applicants']
screenshots:
  items:
    - text: Word limit component 
      src: word-limit-component.png
      caption: Screenshot of the GOV.UK word limit component used
    - text: Word limit example use
      src: word-limit-example.png
      caption: Screenshot of word limits in action
---

## The problem
When we don't limit the amount of information applicants are expected to provide they are more likely to over-provide information. This creates inefficiencies for applicants (working harder and longer than needed) and assessors (reading detailed answers).

## What we did
We added word limits to all questions as standard and varied these limits depending on how much the answer contributed to the criteria score. A low criteria weighted question should have a smaller word limit and a high weighted question should require a more detailed answer.

We made UI changes to clearly indicate the word limit, updating as more words are added and prevent submissions that exceed it.

## Decisions
This has become part of our fund onboarding process and question protocol workshops, working with fund teams to match detail expected with the importance of the question per the criteria

Commit message:

Remove tags from posts and correct parent permlink of all posts

app/word-limits.md, after:

---
layout: post
title: Word limits on questions 
description: Support applicants to understand the degree of detail expected from their responses.
date: 2023-10-11
author: Martin Wright
eleventyNavigation:
    parent: Access funding
    key: Pre-award history
tags: ['learn', 'pre-award'] 
users: ['applicants']
screenshots:
  items:
    - text: Word limit component 
      src: word-limit-component.png
      caption: Screenshot of the GOV.UK word limit component used
    - text: Word limit example use
      src: word-limit-example.png
      caption: Screenshot of word limits in action
---

## The problem
When we don't limit the amount of information applicants are expected to provide they are more likely to over-provide information. This creates inefficiencies for applicants (working harder and longer than needed) and assessors (reading detailed answers).

## What we did
We added word limits to all questions as standard and varied these limits depending on how much the answer contributed to the criteria score. A low criteria weighted question should have a smaller word limit and a high weighted question should require a more detailed answer.

We made UI changes to clearly indicate the word limit, updating as more words are added and prevent submissions that exceed it.

## Decisions
This has become part of our fund onboarding process and question protocol workshops, working with fund teams to match detail expected with the importance of the question per the criteria
